= Postage

== Description

A generic interface (API) for handle text files filtered by Markdown or
Textile syntax.

== Synopsis

Postage is a generic interface (API) which load your text files and handle
the contents in Markdown or Textile. It help you handle easily plain text
files for parse to HTML.

Example:

  require 'postage'

  text = Postage::Entry.file("path/to/text_file.mkd")
  # => #<Postage::Entry:0x7f4fbd9ad418
  #      @file=#<Pathname:path/to/text_file.mkd>>
  text.extract_attributes!
  # => #<Postage::Entry:0x7f4fbd9ad418
  # =>   @filter=:markdown,
  # =>   @title="Entry *test*\n============\n",
  # =>   @content=["\n",
  # =>     "Entry *test*. This content uses [Markdown][] syntax.\n",
  # =>     "\n", "[markdown]: http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/\n",
  # =>     "\n"],
  # =>   @file=#<Pathname:path/to/text_file.mkd>>
  page = text.to_html
  # => "<h1 id='entry_test'>Entry <em>test</em></h1>\n
  # =>  \n<p>Entry <em>test</em>. This content uses
  # =>  <a href='http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/'>Markdown</a>
  # =>  syntax.</p>"

For use files as posts in a blog, use Post class.

  post = Postage::Post.file("path/to/2009-11-20.post-file-for-a-blog.tagged.tag.mkd")

== Requirements

Postage work with following Gems:

* For Markdown filter:
  * {Maruku}[http://maruku.rubyforge.org/] (default library)
  * {RDiscount}[http://github.com/rtomayko/rdiscount/]
  * {BlueCloth}[http://deveiate.org/projects/BlueCloth/]
* For Textile filter:
  * {RedCloth}[http://redcloth.org/]

That is, you choose your favorite filter for both formats.

== Install

Install via RubyGems.

  gem install postage

== Information

For more information about the project, please visit the following Web sites:

* Repositories:
  * {GitHub (Official)}[http://github.com/hallison/postage/]
  * {CodaSet}[http://codaset.com/hallison/postage/]
  * {Gitorious}[http://gitorious.org/postview/postage]
* {Issues}[http://github.com/hallison/postage/issues]
* {Integration}[http://runcoderun.com/hallison/postage/]
* {API Documentation}[http://rdoc.info/projects/hallison/postage/]

About the lightweight markup languages, please, visit the following Web sites:

* {Markdown}[http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown]
* {Markdown Extra}[http://michelf.com/projects/php-markdown/extra/]
* {Textile}[http://textile.thresholdstate.com/]

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009 Hallison Batista and distributed under the MIT
license. See the COPYING file for more info.

